Add RFC-1112 - "Obsolete allowed to use Obsolete" (#617)
fsharp/fslang-design: RFCs/FS-1112-obsolete-allowed-to-use-obsolete.md

# F# RFC FS-1112 - Obsolete allowed to use Obsolete

<!--The design suggestion [Obsolete allowed to use Obsolete](https://github.com/fsharp/fslang-suggestions/issues/1055) has been marked "approved in principle".
-->

This RFC covers the detailed proposal for this suggestion.

- [x] [Suggestion](https://github.com/fsharp/fslang-suggestions/issues/1055)
- [ ] Approved in principle
- [ ] [Implementation](https://github.com/dotnet/fsharp/pull/FILL-ME-IN)
- [ ] Design Review Meeting(s) with @dsyme and others invitees

> - [Discussion](https://github.com/fsharp/fslang-design/discussions/FILL-ME-IN)

Reviewer: Missing discussion

Author: I'm not sure I already should start one, since it's not yet approved

# Summary

> The general idea is to allow types and functions marked with `System.ObsoleteAttribute` to use other `Obsolete`-marked members without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general idea is to allow modules, types and functions marked with `System.ObsoleteAttribute` to use other `Obsolete`-marked members without
```

Author: If mentioning Modules separetely, then I guess i should add all combinations related to them to the Design section?

having the FS0044 warning emitted. 

# Motivation

Assume we completely redesigned API of some library. Then, to keep the backward compatibility we keep the old members and mark

> them with `Obsolete`. But if there was no equivalent to old functions in the new library, we have to use obsolete functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
them with `Obsolete`. But if there is no new equivalent functions to old functions, we have to use obsolete functions
```

> and members in that old obsolete API. Since the member already marked as `Obsolete`, and hence, unsupported, there is no reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and members in that old obsolete API. Since the member is already marked as `Obsolete`, and hence, unsupported, there is no reason
```

let add a b = a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let func a b =
    add a b    // no warning
```

#### 2. Types marked as Obsolete can use functions marked as Obsolete

```fs
[<Obsolete>]
let add a b = a + b

[<Obsolete>]
type Aaa () =
    static member someMember a b =
        add a b  // no warning
```

#### 3. Functions marked as Obsolete can use types marked as Obsolete

```fs
[<Obsolete>]
type Aaa () =
    static member someMember a b =
        a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let add a b =
    Aaa.someMember a b    // no warning
```

#### 4. Any function can use an obsolete function or type if its enclosing function or type is Obsolete

Using obsolete type in a local function:
```fs
[<Obsolete>]
type Aaa () =
    static member someMember a b =
        a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let outerFunc a b =
    let add a b =
        Aaa.someMember a b    // no warning because the outer function is obsolete
    add a b
```

Using obsolete function in a local function:
```fs
[<Obsolete>]
let someAdd a b = a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let outerFunc a b =
    let add a b =
        someAdd a b    // no warning
    add a b
```

New text for the warning will indicate that the outer member should be marked `Obsolete`, like we do it

> with `async` in C#. For example, `The construct is deprecated and should not be used. Consider marking the outer function or type as Obsolete.`

Reviewer: Add the message from C#

Author: Why?

Reviewer: Why should you expect everyone to be familiar with what C# does?

Author: That's not essential to be familiar with it to understand the new text. *But* those who are familar will understand the analogy.

# Drawbacks

> 

Reviewer: Potential for abuse?

Author: I can't think of any potential for abuse at the moment. Let me know if there's some case

#### 1. Functions marked as Obsolete can use functions marked as Obsolete:

```fs
[<Obsolete>]
let add a b = a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let func a b =
    add a b    // no warning
```

#### 2. Types marked as Obsolete can use functions marked as Obsolete

```fs
[<Obsolete>]
let add a b = a + b

[<Obsolete>]
type Aaa () =
    static member someMember a b =
        add a b  // no warning
```

#### 3. Functions marked as Obsolete can use types marked as Obsolete

```fs
[<Obsolete>]
type Aaa () =
    static member someMember a b =
        a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let add a b =
    Aaa.someMember a b    // no warning
```

#### 4. Any function can use an obsolete function or type if its enclosing function or type is Obsolete

Using obsolete type in a local function:
```fs
[<Obsolete>]
type Aaa () =
    static member someMember a b =
        a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let outerFunc a b =
    let add a b =
        Aaa.someMember a b    // no warning because the outer function is obsolete
    add a b
```

Using obsolete function in a local function:
```fs
[<Obsolete>]
let someAdd a b = a + b

[<Obsolete>]
let outerFunc a b =
    let add a b =
        someAdd a b    // no warning
    add a b
```

> #### 5. IsError property effect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 5. Behaviour under different values of the `IsError` property of `System.ObsoleteAttribute`
```

> * `Obsolete(_, (*IsError:*) true)` can use `Obsolete(_, (*IsError:*) true)`

Reviewer: You can use the named argument syntax
```fs
open System
[<Obsolete("", error=true)>] type A = A
```
